Hello everyone, welcome back to another episode of the Grand Prixquel podcast where we discuss all things Feeder Series.
On today's episode, we are going to be doing a review of the British F4 and Italian F4 weekends.
Your hosts today are myself, Robin, Alex, Peter, and Niamh.
So um, Italian F4.
When I say I have-
Everyone who knows me, anyone who's talked to me before, knows how I feel about the 2025 Italian F4 season, right?
But I swear to God, I have not seen a stinker this bad from R-ace before.
Like, just, okay, pace-wise, they were fine, right?
But then Craigie qualified like P6 and Consani qualified P4 for the first race.
And like everything was fine, right?
But then the race starts and Craigie pushes Consani off track.
I think it was probably a racing incident because Craigie didn't get a penalty for it.
He just thought he was Pierre Gasly in Qatar 2021.
I mean, disasterclass, good in qualifying and in the race, he just-
And like Kenzo went on to crash into Savinkov as well, which actually did get him a penalty, a four-place grid penalty for the next race.
Andy got a penalty, his first penalty was also four places for the next race, because he turned on his engine before the one-minute board.
And this penalty, there were- So many drivers got this penalty.
I don't know why, because you had Consani, you had Maccagnani who lost the win because of it.
And many other drivers, I don't remember names.
And it's like, do the drivers know they're not supposed to do that?
I think it's just a classic F4 race.
I mean, it's always the most random stuff going on.
You know, anything's gonna happen.
It happened all weekend.
Is there any chance that the rule changed recently?
It's possible, yeah.
Because I know obviously there's been a lot of confusion over in Indycar about changing rules regarding push-to-pass with them, but if something like this has happened it could just be that the drivers keep forgetting.
It is possible, yeah, they changed the rule.
I remember like with F3, Enzo Deligny, like airing everyone, not knowing the FIA test thingy.
It's probably just like that.
It's like nobody knew the answers to that.
It's probably the same thing, they’re just a bit not fully aware of things.
I really want to do that FIA test.
Like it's completely unrelated, but I really want to do it.
I just want to know what, like, what will I do on it?
That's where we'd pass it.
I think we would.
Yeah, we're better than those drivers.
Grand Prixquel podcast racing team.
One of my friends had to do something like it for marshalling, and then she had to do a bunch of other thingies for her actual karting.
And she was like, oh, this is so much fun.
I actually know the answers to this.
And I was like, oh.
And she was like, yeah, there was someone that failed it.
And I'm like, what?
Anyways, we need to get back.
The thing is, I have not seen this penalty happen before, in like other F4 series.
Like even if you look at, like UAE4, which just happened over the winter, that's not something that's like affected drivers before.
So maybe it is just a rule change.
yeah but it could also be just the amount of drivers that we have here, it's just like there's a higher likelihood that this will happen and because, also considering how you know big the grid is, that drivers think hey
We could start any second now.
I should, you know, do this now because especially if you're, like, further in the back and you think, hey, maybe I should do it now.
I think it's something that will be resolved in the next race.
But sometimes these things just happen.
Thing is, these are experienced drivers.
Consani obviously had most of it-
He's in his second year of F4.
He did a lot of Italian F4 last season and also French F4.
We've talked about this before.
Maccagnani has done F4 Southeast Asia, Formula Trophy, UAE4 and is now doing Italian F4 as well.
These guys have experience.
Maybe they're stressed, maybe they're just a bit, you know, now it's the real main campaign they have to deliver, and especially because they're all teens, I can totally imagine that there's also just a bit of stress, a bit of, wait, how do I actually, you know, proceed here?
It might also be that they're just coming down on it more from a safety perspective.
I don't know if anything happened that could have triggered it, like say, you know, oh, it was happening before but we didn't really care because it wasn't affecting anything, then something happens and they're like, actually no, we need to stop them.
If someone's gonna get hurt.
Yeah, that's possible as well.
Anyways, I have no clue.
But back to R-ace.
So Andy already has a four-place grid penalty for the next race, and he causes a collision with Edu Robinson, which I think that's where he had to DNF the first race.
And so he got a two-place grid penalty for that as well.
Payton Westcott got a two-place grid penalty for overtaking under safety car, and Tamas Gender got his best lap time during qualifying deleted for causing a red flag.
So really the only driver in the entire lineup that didn't get a penalty over the weekend is Emily, because she's the GOAT.
Did they just have a competition here?
Who could get the most penalties?
Maybe. It’s sounding like that.
It seems it could have bet like... How are all of them getting penalized for something? This is like-
They saw that the car was fast and they wanted to make me suffer anyways.
You gotta give the others a chance too, you know?
Let them get ahead of you and then you go in and just destroy them.
We gotta stay positive here.
Yeah, so I was kind of scared that Andy and Kenzo would not qualify for race 4, because they both, like, DNF'd the first race.
But they both qualified, so it was fine.
Race 1, Emily scored points in race 1, which was really nice.
She did finish the race in P16, but then someone in the front got a penalty, so she got promoted to P15, which big fan of the points down to P15.
I really like it because often you see that it can be dominated by a few teams.
It really gives the smaller teams and all drivers more of a chance to score points.
I think also, it's really great that we have points to P15 and I think we could go even further down because it does make a huge difference if a driver finishes in like P30 or P15 because there's worlds between it.
And as Peter just, you know, started to say, we have so many drivers in Prema, US Racing, you know, these big teams where it's pretty much clear that you will score points.
and if all the points scoring positions are already filled with these drivers for smaller teams there's just no chance at all to get points, but now we see it more drivers from more smaller teams also get the chance and still I think we could go even further down with the points just to make it really clear because
For the championship, it won't really matter.
But if you're a driver that, you know, does not have the big money to go to Prema or US Racing, it does make a difference if you, you know, finish every single race in the top 20 while your teammates are only in the 30s.
Yeah, I completely agree.
I also think there's a big difference like when it comes to the end of the season, because obviously if it's only points up to P10 and you were consistently finishing 11th, you're getting zero points, so you're going to be way further down.
But if you're now getting points up to P15, then you're going to be a lot higher up.
It gives you a more accurate idea of what the actual, like, results were like, as opposed to, oh, this person got a random win.
So now they're
Seventh when actually they should be like realistically they should have been about 17th.
Especially given how many drivers are coming with Prema, US and R-ace will eventually be up there.
They will essentially dominate the top 10 for most of the season.
So really this gives everyone else more of a chance to show like, hey, are they able to consistently be in the top 15?
Because, like you said, actually it's a big difference between being P14 and being P28.
Yeah, I mean, for many drivers like want to make it to F1, is still not enough or anything.
But if you're a small driver from a smaller team, making these points and being able to say, hey, in a field of like 50 drivers, I was able to score points.
I was still top 15.
It's really good, you know, really good way to market themself also.
And I thought it was really nice seeing the girls fighting for points positions.
I mean, we saw Emily up in like P13 at some point, but then she dropped down a bit.
Still ended up scoring a point in P15.
Emma scored a point in, was it race 3?
Can we talk about Emma, please? Because in Race 1, Emma ran as high as P10 in parts, but then she had to pit for tyres, because I think it was that she had, she had some problems with the tyres.
She had a puncture, yeah.
Yeah, the point is she was P10 at points, she overtook, she was really really good, and I think it was a great showing from her, and I think it really proves
I was really really surprised by her because she was with PHM and it's generally an alright team but like not a team expect them to win or anything but to show that she can fight to be in the top 10 is great showing and I think we will see more good showings from her.
Also, Rafaela Ferreira, who also raced in Italian F4 this weekend, ran in the top 15 for a while in race one.
But right in like the last two or three laps, she dropped down from, I think she was like P12 at some point, but she dropped down.
She was aided in the fact that Emma went into the pits while she was, you know, in front of her on the track.
So she got a few of those positions.
you know because other drivers had problems but generally it was alright but I don't quite know why she dropped down it was not mentioned on the stream or anywhere but I could imagine maybe she overused the tires
And like, even if they weren't scoring points, Payton Westcott, for example, finished P16 in race two.
And like, it's nice to see them fighting up there.
And I feel like for Emily, for example, I mentioned this in like, on Twitter.
The qualifying groups were like, really unbalanced and Emily like, mentioned it in her Instagram post after the races.
The qualifying groups were really unbalanced and
It just really screwed Emily over and I feel like she could have qualified higher if the groups were a bit more balanced.
Yeah, I think we'll see that improve in, like, the next few weekends when the groups will be normal.
Yeah I think overall I think it's really positive and I'm pretty excited for like you know the upcoming weekends.
I think we should get into the individual races now.
So in race one we had, initially we had Maccagnani win on track but then he got a 10 second penalty so Aksoy inherited the win. I mean, Aksoy did start on pole but he had a bit of a poor start,
falling down, I think he fell to, around p3, p4, but then end of the first lap he recovered back to p2 on track.
I mean it is quite a good, I mean it is a shame he lost the lead at the start, I think he had the pace to keep the lead, but overall it was a very Prema and US dominated top 10.
Bondarev made it into P3 on track P2 in the end.
He really underperformed this week I feel, like, because he went into this very much being the favourite for the title.
Is he not also doing his third year of Italian F4 now?
I mean, second full year, third, because he only really did the last two rounds or something in 2020.
Okay, I can't remember.
So he's, like really experienced compared to some of the others.
Especially, I mean, essentially getting outperformed by Aksoy and Maccagnani who are both rookies as well.
He was behind Cosma in one of the races, wasn't he?
Yeah, in Race 2 he was, and I mean, even in Race 4, they were around the same pace.
And I think Costoya, I mean, Costoya just had a really poor qualifying, he qualified in around P25, but he made up a lot of positions, about 10 positions in all his races.
So, I mean, it's really not a good look to being outperformed by two of your rookie teammates, nearly three of your rookie teammates at first.
Technically Maccagnani isn't a rookie though, cause he did a F4 Southeast Asia last season.
But I did say Aksoy as well, Aksoy did Formula Trophy, but they're rookies to Italian, I mean.
But also, experience-wise, Bondarev is known to, you know, he should also be known to fighting in the front with a great team in Italian F4 with Prema, and he should have the experience in, what we usually say, it's difficult to...
You know, getting through the vibe of it all because it is different when you have 30 cars on track, especially for guys like Cristofor, who then come from the back and have to do a lot of overtakes on slower cars on cars with drivers that maybe do drive a bit erratically.
He should perform more.
I mean, I think it is just a week when he struggled in general, but so I guess.
We'd very much have to wait till the next round to make a proper full judgement.
But I mean, also, shout out again to Emily Cotty, P15, and how did P15 after penalties, so it's always nice to see her in the point.
For me race 1 was kind of horrible because you know again it's the whole thing with R race but um we move on.
Race 2 again Aksoy, with the poor start.
Started in P2 and felt P4.
I think that is him showing his inexperience.
But that's something he can definitely improve on.
We saw it in Race 4 though.
Race 4, he kept the lead.
And he was really lucky to be able to get up there again and not lose so many points and positions, as that he would drop down somewhere where he couldn't recover from.
Yeah, so we had Luka Sammalisto winning it from Pole, David Cosma in second and Aksoy in third.
The thing is about Luka Sammalisto is that I was not expecting him up there because I remember last season he was P8 in the championship between Oliveri and Powell and it's like
You were P8 last year, what are you, what are you doing?
I think it’s just him– maybe he's just jealous with his tracks a lot of the time, he could just be a driver, just, you know, you have a good qualifying and he’s just on it the whole weekend, I think it is partly that as well, I mean.
He's at US Racing now?
He was at US Racing last season too.
But I feel like, I don't know, this race, Weekend, definitely, US Racing was really, really on pace.
And we also saw it with Bansal and Kraling, who both got really, really good points this weekend.
So I think, you know, he's also the one in the team that has, I think he has the most experience in US Racing.
So he's kind of- Yeah, it's his third season of F4.
I mean, he's kind of taking the lead that we expected Bondarev to do at Prema.
Very much so.
Because, again, Bondarev was the third Prema in this race.
And also, I want to say, Kenzo Craigie, I think he fell to around P30 at the start.
I don't know.
He stalled at the start.
Yeah, he stalled at the start, because I saw him a lot, and then he still made it up into P13 in the end.
So he really shows his pace, I think.
And as long as he has a tidy weekend where, I mean, if he started in P6 like he had qualified around there,
I think he could have gotten onto the podium maybe or gotten a solid top five.
So that is hope for him.
He has a clean weekend is what he needs.
Yeah, I think the pace that the R-ace drivers have shown this weekend with the overtakes has been really positive.
And yeah, it wasn't a great weekend overall.
But like I said earlier, I think we should improve over the rest of the season and hopefully we'll have the drivers fighting for wins.
Hopefully.
Yeah, and I think part of it for him, for Craigie, is also just inexperience.
He's still getting used to things, so...
It's all a learning thing.
That is what F4 is for, is to learn how to race in cars.
End of the day.
Yeah, but also Italian F4 is a fairly long, you know, championship and there is a lot of races and the R-ace drivers are generally usually expected.
–If we have this full race weekend format– to also be in the fourth race generally.
So I think there is a great opportunity to improve for everyone.
Race 3, we had Maccagnani winning, Cosma in second, David Walther in the Maffi racing in third, I mean.
What is a Maffi racing car doing on the podium?
What is going on?
What is this championship?
I mean, I do feel a bit bad for Samalisto, he just kind of, his car just kind of died.
P4 in a Maffi car is also incredible.
It kind of come out of nowhere because I think-.
He's just one of those names who are just kind of there.
Like I was already surprised during qualifying because I think he qualified like P7 or something?
I just wanted to mention after the first qualifying I did a rough order of like the pecking order of the teams and I had Maffi racing genuinely as the weakest team although they only have two drivers so it's hard to rate but I- after the last scene, I did not expect them to even get points so I think David Walther is one of those guys who I think he showed incredibly this weekend and he will have you know
put this in his resume somewhere, he will have gotten, you know, the attention that he would not usually get.
And I think it will be quite interesting to watch him maybe be able, even if he does not get into the title fight, if he gets good points, I think it could really be a total underdog story with more sponsors also coming his way.
It's great.
They won't say Costoya again had a good recovery, but then I don't know what happened to him, but actually coming to the line.
He got crashed into by Rodriguez, I think it was.
But it's really simple, again he started in the mid 20s and he made it up to P11.
See I mean it really makes me wonder if he’s a good qualifier and what can he do because you know from karting how good he is and I think I've been a bit surprised at the performance of the other Premas because going into this, we very much, at least are very much expected Bondarev to be the lead Prema and probably Costoya as the second best.
But seeing the others: Cosma, Maccagnani up there was a bit of a surprise.
I've said it, I said it, that I think Aksoy will surprise, and I did not expect him to instantly win, I did expect him to at least get a few podiums, so I'm not as surprised by him, and Maccagnani has the support by Ferrari, no?
Yeah, he does, about the Cosma as well being up, by the fact that all of them are outperforming Bondarev,also Costoya, who very much were the two that people would expect to be the lead Premas, it's more that.
I thought Costoya crossing the line backwards was really funny though.
But I think it's a mix of anyways, like the Prema drivers on Maccagnani, Aksoy and Cosma, just being better than we expected and Bondarev being, I'm sorry but he's worse than we expected.
I think race four is a bit of a struggle for me. Aksoy-
Actually, I mean, Race Four, I mean, I just want to say, thankfully, everybody's okay after that big crash at the start.
But if we had, I think, Bearman stalled, somebody went to the back of him.
It's a bit of, I mean, we saw the wheel.
It all kind of bent out of shape.
I was impressed at how perfectly up works at point.
How do you even get it that perfectly upward, eh?
He posted that picture on his TikTok and someone in the comments of the TikTok said that his car had a question.
What am I doing here?
That's what it’s thinking.
But I mean, finally, Aksoy, he got the start he needed.
Controlled when he controlled the weight and Bansal was charging behind him.
And I think ultimately Bansal was probably a bit faster, but actually managed to hold him off.
I mean, Aksoy and Bansal is maybe not like the rivalry we would have expected, but if it comes down to more races between the two of them, I would be super happy.
And I think it was great to see how mature they also performed because I know quite a few of the drivers with the speed that they had going on.
And also, I mean, especially Aksoy is so early in his career.
Yeah, because Bansal, of course, he is the GB4 champion, so he does have that experience, but I'm so excited to come in.
And it was a tricky condition as well, of course.
It was a bit of a light rain, but they were all on slicks, so it was difficult to manage.
Meanwhile, we had Bondarev, who was, I mean, he was clearly struggling for pace, I mean, you could see a bit of a train forming behind him.
He had like a three second gap between him and the next car ahead of him, and
Cars were slowly overtaking him but he clearly did not have the pace along with Cosma.
To throw in the second, when we talk about Bansal and GB4, I think we need to address the fact that GB4 is miles away from Italian F4, from the cars, from how the racing works, it's totally different.
And I know a lot of people were unsure if Bansal is really that crazy good because GB4 is famously not one of the most competitive.
I think for me, for Bansal his performance in FWS kind of very much showed that he should be able to because I mean being secon–He was third– I mean he should have been second to DVL I mean.
I always supported him but my point is also that I think on the other hand the experience coming from Great Britain where these you know bit of wet races are more likely I think that definitely helped them a bit though.
Yeah, but I mean, he was so much hound, I mean, the gap was very much around kind of hovering around 5 to 3 tenths, so I'd say for most of the race, but...
It was really good.
Yeah, and again, when Costoya and Craigie both making a lot of positions, Craigie started in P24, Costoya in P26 in their recovery, P13 and P15 in the end, so...
But Consani also made a decent recovery.
He started at P14 and ended up was at P7.
For Costoya and I mean for Craigie and Consani, it’s keeping a clean weekend.
And Costoya, is just getting a better qualifying, which will come with experience.
And again, David Walther on the podium.
We had a real underdog podium, I felt like, because it was all drivers, people don't really keep an eye on.
But I think it's great.
I think it's beautiful.
See then, all of this, Aksoy actually taking two wins and three podiums, who's the only driver to finish on the podium all three races.
He ends up being the championship leader on 82 points, which going into this, I don't think anybody expected.
I mean, it is a Prema-dominated top three, just not the three we expected.
moving on too fast for me because I still wanted to mention about the fourth race.
I was really really disappointed that Emma Felbermayr couldn't start the race because she had to stay in the pit lane because her car had some sort of issue and generally I wanted to point out that she had an incredibly unlucky weekend but the seconds where she was not unlucky it was really really
great for her because we saw her run in top 10 at points.
Her qualifying was interrupted, she had the problem with the car, she had, you know, the grid penalty from putting the car on too early.
A lot of bad luck came together but I think it was really promising how she still managed to deliver and I think it's really promising for the next few weekends.
The championship standings look kind of crazy to me, because the two guys who people assumed would be fighting for the title are in P6 and P10.
Yeah, so Aksoy, he has a decent lead, I mean, he has 16 point lead, he’s on a 3 point with Maccagnani on 66 points here in P2, Cosma in third on 61, Bansal fourth with 60, and Walther in the fifth with 58 points here.
quite a hoard of points for him.
P2 to P6 are all really close to each other in points.
Like, there's 12 points separating those 5 drivers.
Yeah, and I mean, even between like, I mean, P6 Bondarev, only 4 points behind Walther, so I mean, he just needs to have a good weekend and he can recover that kind of deficit he has to Aksoy.
And I mean, in the teams yet, you know, surprise, surprise, Prema leading, I mean, I don't think anybody is surprised by that.
I mean, I could, I would have imagined US racing to be closer in points because like Prema’s at 160, US is at 126, but I think, majority of the fact that they're so far behind is because Sammalisto, the car just broke down and right.
I mean, if it wasn't for that, I think if I do the rough calculations, I think they should only be separated by a very few points.
R-ace is P7 in the championship and it really hurts.
I think it's crazy that Maffi Racing is P4.
That's actually insane.
It'd be even more insane if they could keep up the rest of the season.
If we see a Maffi car win, I'm going to cry.
But out of happiness because I'd be so happy for the drivers who are able to do it even with a car that should be a**.
Hey, you should dye your hair like the team colours
What's the team colours?
I don't know, off the top of my head.
Hang on.
Do you have any idea Robin?
No idea.
Wait, I'm looking it up.
Unless it's blue or green.
Blue and yellow.
I would do yellow.
I would do it.
Are you not blonde already?
No.
Currently my hair is like red, more.
Oh, fair enough.
Oh, that's actually such a nice livery.
Like I've never seen it properly like still.
That's actually quite cute.
Okay, good, so we have a plan.
Dying your hair if they get a win.
I think it would be really fun.
You guys heard it here first.
Okay, so the next weekend is in Vallelunga in May 22nd to 24th.
And it's going to be the same format with, like the two group qualifying on the four different races.
Because again, we have too many drivers.
Yeah, the maximum capacity of Vallelunga is 37 drivers, like Misano.
So unless we end up losing like 10 drivers, it'll have to be Group quali.
But we will definitely lose some drivers because not many, but like 3 or 4.
I think 3 should be because it overlaps with F1 Academy, so Emma, Rafa and Payton definitely will not be there.
Yeah, but I don't think we're getting that to a grid of 37.
I mean, maybe we still lose a few more drivers.
Who knows?
I mean, who knows if Prema will even exist.
So.
Yeah, and I think in terms of next round, I do think Bondarev will improve.
I mean, he was able to improve a lot from last year, so I would expect him to improve, and I do want to see Aksoy keep this up, but I'm not too sure if he can, but I would love to see him be able to, because it's really nice to be able to see him do well.
I want to go back to the quality format thing real quick.
Hopefully, we should be doing the normal three race weekend in Monza because the circuit capacity is 49.
So unless we get a bigger grid than we have right now, we should be set for a normal race weekend in Monza.
No, I think we should do four races simply because I want more races at Monza.
Mr Monzabanking starts again.
And possibly if we lose a couple more drivers, we could have the normal race weekend in Mugello, because the circuit capacity there is 46.
So maybe we'll have normal race weekends.
Who knows?
No, I think we should have four races at Monza.
Of course you do.
We should just do a fourth race at Monza, because it's fun.
Have we considered that?
Just for fun.
Bring back the old layout for one race.
Just with the banking?
Oh, send the kids up the banking.
Yes.
Whoever finishes a lap without crashing gets 100 points.
Makes sense, yeah.
Yeah, you know that's how it works.
But yeah, in terms of upcoming rounds, like I said, looks positive for R-ace, hopefully the drivers can lock in a bit and stop getting penalties.
I think Bansal will get past Cosma at the very least in the championship because I think he will still improve the slightest bit and we will see him win very very soon.
Yeah, I can see that.
Niamh, what about you?
What do you think?
I'm scared of jinxing people.
Like, I don't believe, I'm not a particularly superstitious person.
However, I do believe in, like, jinxes.
So I really hope that Emily Cotty can keep getting
You know, it was like P15s even like obviously she was running in P13, Emma was apparently running in P10 at one point Like I really hope we see more of that from the girls because I think it's actually a really really strong field of female drivers in Italian F4 at the moment
I wouldn't say luckily Vallelunga is the only weekend that overlaps with F1 Academy officially so I think we should see definitely Emma do all the other races and hopefully Rafa maybe we will see more and obviously Peyton and
Hopefully we will see more from Academy drivers, you know, just do like enough weekend and I think they should all do Monza.
Anyways, the point is, I think we saw it with Emma.
I'm a bit sad that she will miss the next round, but I think she will definitely score points in, definitely also score good points, maybe even top 10s in the long runs of the championship.
Um, Payton has been confirmed to be doing six rounds of Italian F4, and I'm pretty sure the season is seven rounds.
So she'll be doing everything but Vallelunga.
Yeah, that's what I mean.
I just forgot about her for a second because, uh, I forgot she's doing F1 Academy.
She's also doing one round of Euro4... Why is she only doing one round?
No idea.
Wait, why is she not doing all of them?
Do any of them overlap with F1 Academy?
I mean, to be fair, there are  only three rounds of Euro4, so maybe the other two just overlap.
Yeah, at that point just do all three.
But maybe they overlap with F1 Academy.
I just remembered, I swear to God, I saw that Mathilda Racing was testing some Italian circuits.
So I hope we will see Jade Jacquet and Mathilda Paatz also.
Hopefully Italian F4, potentially Euro4.
Anyways, we need to get on, British F4.
The races this weekend were really, really good, especially Race 3, but let's not get into Race 3 yet.
Let's go through the first two races first.
I mean, in qualifying, there's a bit of a shock with Dries van Langendonck only qualifying down in P8.
He wanted to test himself.
We thought he was washed.
No, I just don't want to test himself.
You know, he has to prove that he can also do well when he's not starting from pole.
The first two were in Race 1, I mean, Al Azhari was on pole but Jeff-Hall took the lead from off the start, DVL only really made one move onto P7 and he just kind of stayed there the whole race.
He didn't really, I mean.
It was like I've had enough of being good guys, I'm just going to sit here.
Yeah, and I mean, again, finally, it's nice to see Harfield up at the front because we saw last time out of Donington Park,
he was fast, but he got a bit unlucky in qualifying, so I mean, he made it up to third at the start, nearly made it into second, but then I think, I mean, I think I enjoy the Donington Park races more.
It seems like overall, they’re struggling to overtake at Brands Hatch, which is my impression, but that's what it seems like.
Jeff-Hall has been really impressing me.
I mean, he was in the championship lead for a bit and like, I think over the course of the season, he could possibly challenge DVL for the title.
He is a Ginetta Junior Champion and a Mercedes junior, I mean.
I wanted to mention, I also prefer Donnington, but I just prefer the track generally because Brands Hatch is, I think at the very least it looks more tight, so that was a bit safe thought on the start.
When faster drivers struggled to get further in front, there was no space.
Yeah, I mean, you could see most of the moves made were basically on start and restarts.
Other than that, it felt like there was not that much overtaking.
I mean, how will you have space to overtake if there is no space?
And it's such a small track as well.
I mean, it's the shortest track on the calendar, I think.
I mean, lap times were like, what, 45 seconds?
Yeah so there's also obviously not a lot of corners or anything where you could plan to overtake.
But like, in true F4 fashion we had two safety cars and even a red flag because it's- It’s not F4 without safety cars.
I mean Race 2 again, you’ve got DVL, I mean.
He had a good start until Joseph Smith pushed him right onto the grass.
I think his start was too good almost, because it's exactly what I just said in which he looked way faster than the guys next and in front of him, but there was no space, like he looked fully get into it but there was no space to go, so he got pushed because of that, kind of.
If he was more at the speed of the others, I don't think that would have happened, but also then he wouldn't be DVL.
Yeah, and I think he had a better pace this week, because of course, Jeff-Hall, who did win race 1, finishing right behind him, but he then eventually dropped and DVL ended up losing another position.
And I mean, yeah, I mean, Joseph Smith did end up getting karma, because he got a 5-second penalty, for track limits, not for pushing DVL wide, but still karma, I'm gonna say.
And again, Harfield impressing, making up three positions, which I mean, given how tight it was on this track, is again quite impressive.
I think I need to be a bit mean here.
A driver that did not impress me was Alfie Slater, who...
I think he cooked his tires.
P11 to P16 in one lap.
It's just, you know, I was also a bit sorry for him because I felt that the commentators were really focused on him and they wanted him to do well.
And they're like, oh my god, he could get his first points here.
And like, in that lap, he just dropped down.
It was, it was sad.
I was sorry for him.
I think it's, I mean, yeah, you could see, I think he just overcooked his tyres, in the moment they went off.
He had everybody and he went a bit wide.
That gave space to everyone and they all just like.
But he's also in a Rodin and like he should, he should be higher up there and like, closer to the likes of Lennon and Van Langendock.
I mean, to be fair, I mean, with Lennon, even though he's not necessarily got the results in the races, he's still been qualifying a lot better.
Yes, what I mean, like...
It's two weekends in a row now, but... Yeah, also, I want to shout out Scott Lindblom, because, again, I really enjoyed his race craft.
I've been saying this quite a while about him.
I think he has excellent racecraft and he just has the ability to make those moves at the right time, there's overtakes.
Because he's one of the few drivers who made a few overtakes during the race, which again, as was mentioned, it was extremely hard to overtake it seems like.
I absolutely agree.
I do really, really think that he's got really, really nice racecraft.
Like it was obvious.
I can't even remember what championship it was he did over the winter, but I remember watching it and just thinking, oh, it's good.
UAE4.
I was gonna say that, but I didn't want to be wrong.
But yeah, I remember watching him then thinking, oh, that's good.
Just as long as he keeps it, and clearly he has if he's bringing it into this championship.
Like, I just think he's a really good driver.
I wish he'd also keep it clearly in the qualifying, because I feel like he should be really up there every single time, but for some reason, there's always some problem that keeps him from being where he should be.
But hopefully, you know, we know he has the talent, it's just about getting the qualifying sorted, but I think we will see more and more of him as the rounds go on.
But then, I mean, compared to the first two races tho, race three was a proper cracker, that was so much fun.
Race 3 felt like a fever dream.
What was going on?
Like, before the race even started, you had like half the grid in the pit lane because they were changing from wets to slicks.
If you're going to declare it’s a wet race, you'll have wets on, but I think on the formation lap, some drivers realise, oh, it's actually feeling pretty dry.
I can go on slicks.
And of course, when you're at the back, it's like you have nothing to lose.
If you're down in like P25, you have nothing to lose, you might as well go for it.
But notably, one of the drivers who went for the slicks was none other than Dries Van Langendock.
I think, what was it that caused the safety car in the beginning?
Somebody spinning out, or something I don't fully remember.
I don't remember what caused the safety car, but the safety car caught the wrong driver.
And it was really funny.
I think there's quite a big gap because you had, I think, you had all the slick tyre one and there's a gap between the wet tyre runners and the slick tyre runners.
But also, Brands Hatch is just so small that it was really difficult because they were separated all over the circuit.
It was difficult to figure out where the start is and where the last cars are, because it was just all separated.
So the safety car ended up picking up Chiara Battig, who was in P14.
instead of the actual race leader.
And then after the safety car period was over, they just had all the drivers go past the safety car until it finally picked up Al Azhari again.
It was really funny, because I think the commentators were saying that it was possible for them to red flag the session, but then that would have really ruined the race for anyone who took the gamble to go on slicks in the beginning.
It's just the most F4 race ever.
I mean, it's not F4 with a bit of chaos and a bit of everything.
But it was really interesting to see, you know, how the different drivers worked on the different tires because you could see that it was really, in between if the slicks were really good idea or if, you know, it was maybe a bit too wet to do that.
But I mean, DVL was insane.
It really looked like he was playing one of the F1 games on like zero AI.
He was just like, how many overtakes did he make in one lap?
He was like getting past one person and then immediately catching up to the next person and overtaking them as well.
It was insane.
I mean, of course yes it's on tyre strategy, but he only had to over-, I mean there were drivers ahead of him also on slicks, he only had to get up-
It reminded me very much of Freddie Slater’s win at Spa last year, when he started down in P23, took the gamble on tyres.
It's very much the same thing, well of course you know it's a tyre strategy win but he had to get ahead of all the drivers, he had to have the skill and he ended up winning by like four seconds.
I was also really impressed by Harfield.
He was running on slicks, broke his front wing, came into the pits to change it, and then still ended up what, P5?
Fifth.
Yeah, so I think he could have won the race if he didn't break that front wing.
It was between he and DVL because they were pretty much right next to each other on track as well.
He would have been- Harfield was actually ahead, I think.
And also, Kit Belofsky on the podium was really nice to see because he, of course, is Saudi Arabian F4 champion and albeit, that's not a very strong field, but it's still a single-seater title.
And it's nice to see him because he's obviously- he struggled a lot in qualifying.
He's had the pace in the way she is but not quite in qualifying so it's nice to see him up on the podium, of course for a smaller team as well as he's with Fortec Motorsport.
Also we saw Chiara in P7 which was really nice to see.
I wanted to talk also about Hewetson in P3.
It's quite interesting because I think after you know DNF thing in Race 2, it's really nice for him to be up there and he's with Xcel I think.
The whole point is
It was really race where it helped to, you know, have a bit of luck, but also a possibility to what people often say, you know, a bit of wet race will make a difference for the drivers.
And it, you see it does make a difference.
But I asked to think if we look at DVL and Battig, with the big teams with Hitech and Rodin, they did have a better grasp at the strategy needed.
I mean, that's always going to happen.
I'm going to be honest here.
The last three or four laps, I was completely confused because there are so many changes.
I would have to watch the race 20 times and look for every single driver and have to see who makes positions, who drops down.
It was really in those last few laps, the slits were way stronger because of course, Al Azhari was initially in the lead, but he ended up falling to around P8 and I mean the others were no where even close, I mean Smith down in P10, and they were initially the ones at the front, so.
It really showed how being on the slicks was the right choice, but again, if you get more safety car, that's not going to happen.
But the gamble paid off and I mean for someone like you know Belofksy, it was- he had an issue which meant he started around P18, just go for it.
Anyways, I think we're at the point where, with Van Langendock really in the lead, the drivers, they will try to, you know, keep up with him and we saw that it was not a perfect easy weekend for him.\
But I think he will pretty much run away from this point, because even if he has difficult weekends and difficult times, like in the first races, you will always have races like the third one where he suddenly overtakes so much and
I think he's leading with like 23 points right now.
Yeah.
And 41 over the third.
So it would take quite a bit more now to- it's not impossible, but it's good to have- for him to have that, you know, basis of leading.
Yeah, and I mean, and the other one in the top four, Jeff-Hall, Hartfield, Lindblom. It’s who you'd expect to be up there very much.
It's not really many surprises, and I think the fight for P2 is going to be close, and potentially we're going to have weekends where they're close to DVL, but I think it's also going to be a thing of DVL is just-
As you said, it's able to pull out that third race when needed, and if a bad weekend is having... We're still on the point for all three races, and
Two P7s, and then obviously he won the other race. So if that's a bad weekend for him, like.
And the reverse grid, of course he got pushed wide at the start. I mean, I think he could have been higher. Ultimately maybe P5, P4.
Also, he could not get any points in that race for overtaking, which he would usually definitely have gotten. And that's thanks to Joseph Smith pushing him wide.
I mean, if he has an unlucky weekend at some point, I think Jeff-Hall could definitely get close enough to make him uncomfortable.
I mean, we saw it this weekend.
Jeff-Hall was leading the championship before that third race.
Yeah, but it was only by like two points or something.
Yeah, but if something happens, then...
It's only by two points, but still two points, like.
A championship lead is a championship lead.
Yeah, I think it's such a big champ- long as it’s a 30 race championship, it's going to be who can be the most consistent.
It's going to come down to that.
Might not be the person that wins all the races.
It might be someone who's consistently on the podium, fourth, etcetera etcetera.
If you have the consistency, while your rivals jumping from first to eighth to whatever, consistency is always going to be better.
I think it's really nice to see Harfield in P3 in the championship, because he did not have a very good first weekend, like he got really unlucky so it's really nice to see him up there.
I need to say something that I would usually not say, and I'm very sorry because I don't want to be called a hater, but I want to look down in the standings for once and, because I saw it earlier and it really surprised me actually, because Alfie Slater is in P31.
And in front of him in P30 is Autumn Fisher, who was only doing this one weekend, and you know, we talked about the fact that it was like the first possibility for him to get points this weekend, but I was surprised that he only has
one point in the whole championship from, I assume, one of the overtakes in the reverse grid race, while Autumn Fisher has two, and I think it really proves that he needs to improve quite a lot, especially with the Rodin being so far down.
I think he will eventually get there cause, in FWS he was solid and he did decent in Ginetta Juniors so I think he will eventually get up there, maybe get a more consistent points, he's just about getting started in the right place.
I want to have a good finish to get that positive momentum, I think it's a bit of a, but it was a bit unlucky in Race Two.
Maybe it was part of him for overdoing it on the tyres, but I mean he's not as good as his brother, but I think he will be able to maybe get, you know, top 5s.
But I think it's also really unlucky for him to have missed out on so many points that he should have, could have gotten already.
And it will make it really, really hard for him to, you know, keep up with the other guys.
As we've said, like, um, the top five, the championship there, like 40 points on, definitely nothing said there.
But the more you miss out in these early races, the more you have to
hunt them down later on, and then you really cannot waste any time doing any mistakes then.
A lot harder to make up a deficit than it is to just be consistently there.
So for the next races, or is there anything else we want to discuss about British F4?
I really hope we see more points for Chiara.
I think she's a very talented driver and I think P7 is a good start for her.
I'm obviously hoping to see more eventually.
Someone has to correct me here, but I feel like all Hitech drivers, or at least her and, who's the other guy, Scott Lindblom, they both kind of struggle with qualifying.
And I wonder if it's a problem on their side, or if Hitech generally struggles to put, you know, the qualifying together for them.
Maybe, the other two Hitechs are Al Azhari and Palmer, so Al Azhari had two poles, so it must just be them.
Yeah, he was really good, but okay, so it's the drivers.
Great, then they have to sit together and learn, study a bit.
Have to sit together, watch his onboards and be like, what are you doing?
How is he qualifying so well?
But no, I do think it's really promising.
She's currently sitting P12 in the championship, which, promising.
I've got my fingers crossed for her.
But yes, just I think all the female drivers that I've seen recently in British F4, like there's been good performances from all of them.
I know Chiara is probably one of the only ones that's not going to do an F1 Academy round, ever.
I wouldn't be so sure about that.
Like I even I agree that I don't think she will do the whole season, but I could totally see her do it as a wildcard driver just for you know, bit of fun.
I think the issue right now is that she's too young until like, no, she's never mind, she is old enough now.
It's like, well, is there really any point if she's doing well in the mixed championships?
Obviously, I know there's the visibility and the sponsor side of everything, but-
But I also wanted to point out that when you said about female drivers, there's also Danielle Sutton, who is with Chris Dittman Racing though, which is kind of the worst team in British F4.
But she's not last.
She's beating Alfie Slater and she's beating a bunch of other male drivers.
Yeah, you know, it has to be something.
But I mean, Tommy Harfield is the only Chris Dittman racer who seems to get somewhere, but I have to check a second because–
Yeah. the others of them, I don't know if the problem is, again is the problem the drivers, or the problem the team which can only put it together for-
Um, who did I say, oh my god i'm getting confused here. Anyways the point is, I think we will see some more interesting things, I think it's great at the moment we have the reverse group races, where you know overtaking gets also supported, even if you come from the back.
Also just a quick note, Autumn Fisher did this round with Chris Dittman Racing.
She got P25, P26 and P19 and she is going to be the wild card for Montreal.
She has officially been announced.
Excited to see how she does there.
I honestly can't remember anything from her weekend but she's got two points in the championship so good for her.
Yeah, I mean, she was with Chris Dittman Racing, and I was glad enough to see her finish in the top 20 in the third race, because there's, I mean, with Chris Dittman Racing coming into the championship, I did not expect a lot.
But I was, I'm pretty sure she was in front often, you know, Sutton also the other races, so that's something at the very least.
Yeah, she was in front of her for all of them.
Or, I mean, Danielle retired from one of them, so we can't really count that, but... Yeah, but I think it'll be interesting to see how they do what we see from them.
I think that all there is to say for this week.
Okay, so that's it for today's episode.
Thank you guys for listening.
Make sure to follow us on all our socials @grandprixquel on Twitter, Instagram, and TikTok, and let us know if you have any comments on this episode.
Our next episode should be an overview on all the F1 junior teams and all their drivers, so be sure to tune in for that one.
And yeah, thank you.